# PersonalFlyingWing
The Mars Personal Flying Wing is a jet-pack hybrid rocket that enables an astronaut to travel on Planet Mars quickly, safely and conveniently. The airborne vehicle rockets to cruising altitude before transitioning into a gliding configuration by altering its centre of mass. It is advantageous for an explorer to travel across large distances on Mars at high speeds with an efficient fuel source. A hardware prototype of the Flying Wing has been constructed for Earth conditions. In addition, a simulation model has been developed in accordance with Mars’ low air pressure environment. The Flying Wing is a portable form of transportation, being encased in a backpack that folds out into an aircraft for manned flight. The hardware prototype has a weight of 1.25kg with a sustained lift of 17km/hr. In comparison, the aircraft designed for the Mars environment is 70kg with a sustained lift at 400km/hr. The simulation accounted for a 80kg person, 20kg space suit, 180kg of fuel and a 100kg payload. For the construction of the Mars Flying Wing, carbon fibre was selected as it exhibits a high tensile strength to weight ratio. The propellent is fuelled by liquid carbon monoxide combusted by pure liquid oxygen in a semi-cryogenic form. The fuel and oxidiser is able to be sourced from Mars' atmosphere, with the provision of a electrolysis machine. Traditional methods for flight on Earth such as propeller systems are infeasible for airborne transportation on Mars, due to the low air pressure on the planet. In accordance, innovation was necessary to create an engine system that would enable an astronaut to hover above ground and land safely at high speeds.
